doc/integrating-applications/topics/as_develop-step-extensions.adoc, before:

// This assembly is included in the following assemblies:
// as_developing-extensions.adoc

:context: extensions
[id='develop-step-extensions_{context}']
= Alternatives for developing step extensions 
:context: step-alternatives

A step extension implements one or more custom steps. 
Each custom step implements one action for processing integration data
between connections. 
The following examples demonstrate the alternatives for developing
step extensions: 

* xref:example-route-xml-fragment_{context}[]
* xref:example-route-builder_{context}[]
* xref:example-camel-bean_{context}[]
* xref:example-step-api_{context}[]

Syndesis provides custom Java annotations that you can use in 
conjunction with the `syndesis-extension-plugin`.  When you implement
a step extension or a connector extension in Java, you can specify annotations 
that enable Maven to add action definitions to the extension definition JSON file. 
To enable annotation processing,  add 
the following dependency to your Maven project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.syndesis.extension</groupId>
  <artifactId>extension-annotation-processor</artifactId>
  <optional>true</optional>
</dependency>
----

include::r_example-route-xml-fragment.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::r_example-route-builder.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::r_example-camel-bean.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::r_example-step-api.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

:context: extensions

Commit message:

user doc: Added a note about creating beans in step extensions.

doc/integrating-applications/topics/as_develop-step-extensions.adoc, after:

// This assembly is included in the following assemblies:
// as_developing-extensions.adoc

:context: extensions
[id='develop-step-extensions_{context}']
= Alternatives for developing step extensions 
:context: step-alternatives

A step extension implements one or more custom steps. 
Each custom step implements one action for processing integration data
between connections. 
The following examples demonstrate the alternatives for developing
step extensions: 

* xref:example-route-xml-fragment_{context}[]
* xref:example-route-builder_{context}[]
* xref:example-camel-bean_{context}[]
* xref:example-step-api_{context}[]

Syndesis provides custom Java annotations that you can use in 
conjunction with the `syndesis-extension-plugin`.  When you implement
a step extension or a connector extension in Java, you can specify annotations 
that enable Maven to add action definitions to the extension definition JSON file. 
To enable annotation processing,  add 
the following dependency to your Maven project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.syndesis.extension</groupId>
  <artifactId>extension-annotation-processor</artifactId>
  <optional>true</optional>
</dependency>
----

Because Spring Boot is the integration runtime, to inject beans 
into a Camel context, be sure to follow standard Spring Boot 
practices. For example, 
link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/1.5.11.RELEASE/reference/html/boot-features-developing-auto-configuration.html[create an auto configuration class] 
and create beans there. However, the default behavior is that 
extension code is not subject to package scanning. Consequently, 
you must create and populate the `META-INF/spring.factories` file
in a step extension.

include::r_example-route-xml-fragment.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::r_example-route-builder.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::r_example-camel-bean.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::r_example-step-api.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

:context: extensions
