doc/integrating-applications/topics/p_applying-conditions-to-mappings.adoc, before:

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
// as_mapping-data.adoc

[id='applying-conditions-to-mappings_{context}']
= Applying conditions to mappings

In some integrations, it is helpful to add conditional 
processing to a mapping. For example, suppose that you are 
mapping a source zip code field to a target zip code field. 
If the source zip code field is empty, you might want to fill 
the target field with `99999`. To do this, you would specify 
an expression that tests the zip code source
field to determine if it is empty, and if it is empty, 
inserts `99999` into the zip code target field. 

The data mapper supports expressions that are similar to a Microsoft 
Excel expressions, but does not support all Microsoft Excel expression 
syntax.  

You can define zero or one condition for each mapping. 

The following procedure gets you started with applying 
conditions to mappings. As you work with mappings and 
conditions, you can perform the required steps in the 
order that is most convenient for you. 


.Prerequisites

* You are mapping fields in a *Data Mapper* step. 
* You are familiar with Microsoft Excel expressions or 
you have the conditional expression that you want to apply 
to a mapping. 

.Procedure

. If data types are not already visible, display them by clicking 
image:shared/images/EditorSettings.png[Editor settings] and then 
*Show Types*. 
+
While this is not a requirement for specifying a condition, it is
helpful to see the data types.

. Create the mapping that you want to apply a condition to, or
ensure that the currently selected mapping is the mapping that you 
want to apply a condition to. For example, consider this mapping: 
+
image:images/first-conditional-mapping.png[lastName and firstName map to customerName]

. In the upper right, click
image:images/add-condition-to-mapping.png[Add expression] to 
display the conditional expression input field. 
+
In the expression field, the data mapper automatically displays 
the names of the source fields in the current mapping. For example: 
+
image:images/first-conditional-mapping-expression.png[lastName + firstName]
+
In the expression input field, the order of the source fields is the 
order in which you selected them when you created the mapping. 
This is important because the default mapping behavior is that the 
data mapper concatenates the field values in this order to insert 
the result in the target field. In this example, to create this 
mapping, `lastName` was selected first and then `firstName` was selected. 

. Edit the expression input field to specify the conditional 
expression that you want the data mapper to apply to the 
mapping. 
+
As you specify the expression, you can: 
+
* Enter `@` and start to enter the name of a field.
The data mapper displays a list of the fields that match 
what you entered. Select the field that you want to 
specify in the expression. 

* Drag a field from the mapping canvas into the expression input field. 

+

When you add a field name to the expression, the data mapper adds 
that field to the mapping. For example, consider this conditional 
expression: 

+
image:images/second-conditional-mapping-expression.png[if(ISEMPTY(lastName), firstName, orderId + phone)]

+
During execution, if the data mapper determines that the `lastName`
field is empty, it maps only the `firstName` field to the target
`customerName` field. If both the `lastName` and `firstName` fields 
are empty, the data mapper concatenates the values in the source 
`orderId` and `phone` fields, and inserts the result in the 
`customerName` field.

+
For this example, after you complete entering the expression, 
the data mapping is: 

+
image:images/second-conditional-mapping.png[lastName, firstName, orderId, phone are mapped to customerName]


. If mapping preview fields are not already visible, display them 
by clicking image:shared/images/EditorSettings.png[Editor settings] and then 
*Show Mapping Preview*. 

. Enter sample data in the source preview input field(s) 
to ensure that the target field or target fields
get(s) the correct value. 

. Optionally, apply transformations to one or more source or target fields
that are in the mapping:
.. In the *Mapping Details* panel, find the field that you want to apply 
a transformation to. 
.. Just below it, click *Add Transformation*. 
.. Click the transformation that you want the data mapper to perform. 
.. If needed, specify input parameters. 

+
For example, in the same mapping presented in this procedure, in the 
*Mapping Details* panel, you could apply the `Uppercase`
 transformation to the `firstName` field. You can test this by entering 
 data in the `firstName` field's preview input field. 
 
. Edit the conditional expression as needed to obtain the desired result.

Commit message:

user doc: Adds Tech Preview note, which renders downstream only

doc/integrating-applications/topics/p_applying-conditions-to-mappings.adoc, after:

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
// as_mapping-data.adoc

[id='applying-conditions-to-mappings_{context}']
= Applying conditions to mappings

In some integrations, it is helpful to add conditional 
processing to a mapping. For example, suppose that you are 
mapping a source zip code field to a target zip code field. 
If the source zip code field is empty, you might want to fill 
the target field with `99999`. To do this, you would specify 
an expression that tests the zip code source
field to determine if it is empty, and if it is empty, 
inserts `99999` into the zip code target field. 


ifeval::["{location}" == "downstream"]
[IMPORTANT]
====
Applying conditions to mappings is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are 
not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be 
functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. 
These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling 
customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process. 
For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, 
see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/[]. 
====
endif::[]


The data mapper supports expressions that are similar to a Microsoft 
Excel expressions, but does not support all Microsoft Excel expression 
syntax.  

You can define zero or one condition for each mapping. 

The following procedure gets you started with applying 
conditions to mappings. As you work with mappings and 
conditions, you can perform the required steps in the 
order that is most convenient for you. 


.Prerequisites

* You are mapping fields in a *Data Mapper* step. 
* You are familiar with Microsoft Excel expressions or 
you have the conditional expression that you want to apply 
to a mapping. 

.Procedure

. If data types are not already visible, display them by clicking 
image:shared/images/EditorSettings.png[Editor settings] and then 
*Show Types*. 
+
While this is not a requirement for specifying a condition, it is
helpful to see the data types.

. Create the mapping that you want to apply a condition to, or
ensure that the currently selected mapping is the mapping that you 
want to apply a condition to. For example, consider this mapping: 
+
image:images/first-conditional-mapping.png[lastName and firstName map to customerName]

. In the upper right, click
image:images/add-condition-to-mapping.png[Add expression] to 
display the conditional expression input field. 
+
In the expression field, the data mapper automatically displays 
the names of the source fields in the current mapping. For example: 
+
image:images/first-conditional-mapping-expression.png[lastName + firstName]
+
In the expression input field, the order of the source fields is the 
order in which you selected them when you created the mapping. 
This is important because the default mapping behavior is that the 
data mapper concatenates the field values in this order to insert 
the result in the target field. In this example, to create this 
mapping, `lastName` was selected first and then `firstName` was selected. 

. Edit the expression input field to specify the conditional 
expression that you want the data mapper to apply to the 
mapping. 
+
As you specify the expression, you can: 
+
* Enter `@` and start to enter the name of a field.
The data mapper displays a list of the fields that match 
what you entered. Select the field that you want to 
specify in the expression. 

* Drag a field from the mapping canvas into the expression input field. 

+

When you add a field name to the expression, the data mapper adds 
that field to the mapping. For example, consider this conditional 
expression: 

+
image:images/second-conditional-mapping-expression.png[if(ISEMPTY(lastName), firstName, orderId + phone)]

+
During execution, if the data mapper determines that the `lastName`
field is empty, it maps only the `firstName` field to the target
`customerName` field. If both the `lastName` and `firstName` fields 
are empty, the data mapper concatenates the values in the source 
`orderId` and `phone` fields, and inserts the result in the 
`customerName` field.

+
For this example, after you complete entering the expression, 
the data mapping is: 

+
image:images/second-conditional-mapping.png[lastName, firstName, orderId, phone are mapped to customerName]


. If mapping preview fields are not already visible, display them 
by clicking image:shared/images/EditorSettings.png[Editor settings] and then 
*Show Mapping Preview*. 

. Enter sample data in the source preview input field(s) 
to ensure that the target field or target fields
get(s) the correct value. 

. Optionally, apply transformations to one or more source or target fields
that are in the mapping:
.. In the *Mapping Details* panel, find the field that you want to apply 
a transformation to. 
.. Just below it, click *Add Transformation*. 
.. Click the transformation that you want the data mapper to perform. 
.. If needed, specify input parameters. 

+
For example, in the same mapping presented in this procedure, in the 
*Mapping Details* panel, you could apply the `Uppercase`
 transformation to the `firstName` field. You can test this by entering 
 data in the `firstName` field's preview input field. 
 
. Edit the conditional expression as needed to obtain the desired result.
